Paradigm,Forms of a programming language that indicate how it is written in and how the source is executed by the system.
Declarative,Programming paradigm where the state of the system is defined or declared. Such as a markup or templating language.
Imperative,Paradigm where instructions are given to a system for execution.
Compiler,A program that converts source code of a compiled language to a binary file. *Compiler;Compilation
Interpreter,A program that executed the source code of an interpreted language. *Interpreted;Interpretation
Portability,The aspect of a language that defines how easily its programs can be ran on a wide variety of systems.
Command Line Interface (cli),A textual method of interacting with a computer system opposed to a graphical environment.
Prompt,A symbol or group of systems denoting the current line in a command line interface.
Terminal,A program that displays a command line interface. *Terminal Emulator
Executable File,A binary file that can be ran as a program on a computer often ending in .exe.
Binary,Code or number system containing only 0s and 1s; What a computer fundamentally understands.
Bit,An entity with only two possible states represented by 0 and 1.
Integrated Development Environment,A program used to edit source code, and compile or interpret source code. Usually feature rich.
Text Editor,A program used to edit source code.
Shell,A program that offers an environment in which to interact with the system. Usually referring to a shell on the command line.
Command,A word that executes a program.
Option,A setting usable at the command line. *Switch
Syntax,The rules dictating how a language expresses meaning.
Style,The ways a language can express meaning based on the preferences of the author.
Data Type,A data organization that defines the meaning of the data.
Object,A concept defining an entity of a some data type and its existence. Data type; location; times used; etc. 
Variable,A name used to label data.
Pointer,A kind of variable which refers or points to an object. Variables in Python are pointers by default. *Reference
Keyword,A word in a programming language that is protected for a certain used and not allowed for use as a variable name.
Truth Table,A table expressing the inputs and outputs of logical operations.
Logical Operation,An operation that accepts and returns truth values.
Arithmetic Operation,An operation that accepts and returns numerical values.
Boolean,A data type that has only two possible values: true or false.
Function,Code that is encapsulated. May accept inputs or return outputs.
Parameter,The input of a function.
Definition,The code that determines the actions of a function.
Body,The code block following a conditional or function declaration.
Statement,Code that expresses an action to be carried out.
Method,A function of a class to accept an object of said class as input. *Dot Function
Built-In,A function or data type defined by the authors of a programming language.
Casting,Converting one data type to another. *Cast; Casted
Assignment,Giving a name to an object by which the object can be referenced.
Nesting,Containing code blocks such as functions or conditionals within one another.
Comment,A line of code that is skipped by the interpreter. For human readability.
Comparison Operation,An operation that performs a test and accepts numerical values and returns truth values.
Operator,A symbol denoting an operation on one or between multiple objects or entities.
if,A keyword beginning a conditional if statement.
else,A keyword beginning a conditional else statement.
Conditional statement,A statement which evaluates the truth value of a case.
loop,A code block that executes until a condition is not met.
Recursion,The act of a code block calling itself.
Module,Source code that can be reference and used by other source code.
import,Keyword that brings into scope other source code.
Source Code,The expression of a programming language as a text file before compilation or interpretation.
Path,A location within a file system.
Data,Information. Usually ultimately stored in the form of binary data.
Algorithm,The definition of a process or instructions to be carried to to complete a task.
Instantiation,The creation of a variable.
Calling,To execute a function. *Call;Called
By Value,To provide only the value of an object to a function, not the object itself.
By Reference,To provide an object itself to a function.
Scope,Data other code is aware of. *Scoping
Instantiation,The creation if an object; the bringing of an object into existence.
Shorthand,The combination of multiple operators or processes and their functionalities into a single operator or symbol.
Precedence,The order of operations in a programming language. Higher precedence is executed before lower precedence.
